=== Ring Spec (Draft Version)
Ring is defined in terms of Components, Handlers, Requests, and Responses,
each of which are described below.


== Components
Ring components constitute the logic of the web application and are abstracted 
form the details of the HTTP protocol.  They are implemented as Clojure 
functions that process a given request to generate and return a response.

A component is either an 'endpoint' or 'middleware'. An endpoint component is
used at the leaf of a component tree, i.e. it does not call any other components 
to generate it's response. A 'middleware' component in contrast may invoke
other components to generate its response. We can combine 1 or more endpoints
with 0 or more middleware components to build a complete Ring 'app'. Such an
app can then be run by a Ring handler.

== Handlers
A Ring handler is a server implementation than can 'run' apps. Handlers are 
responsible for implementing the HTTP protocol and abstracting the apps that 
they run from the details of the protocol.

Handlers are implemented as functions of two arguments, an options map and a 
Ring app. The options map provides any needed configuration to the handler, such 
as the port on which to run.

Once initialized, handlers receive HTTP requests, parse them to construct an 
Ring request, and then invoke their Ring app with this request as an
argument. Once the app returns a Ring response, the handler uses it to construct 
and send an HTTP response to the client.


== Ring Requests
A Ring request is a Clojure map containing at least the following keys and 
corresponding values:

:server-port
  (Required, Integer)
  The port on which the request is being handled.

:server-name
  (Required, String)
  The resolved server name, or the server IP address.

:remote-addr
  (Required, String)
  The IP address of the client or the last proxy that sent the request.

:uri
  (Required, String)
  The request URI. Must starts with "/".

:query-string
  (Optional, String)
  The query string, if present.

:scheme
  (Required, Keyword)
  The transport protocol, must be one of :http or :https.

:request-method 
  (Required, Keyword) 
  The HTTP request method, must be one of :get, :head, :options, :put, :post, or 
  :delete.

:content-type
  (Optional, String)
  The MIME type of the request body, if known.

:content-length
  (Optional, Integer)
  The number of bytes in the request body, if known.

:character-encoding
  (Optional, String)
  The name of the character encoding used in the request body, if known.

:headers
  (Required, IPersistentMap)
  A Clojure map of downcased header name Strings to corresponding header value 
  Strings.

:body
  (Optional, InputStream)
  An InputStream for the request body, if present.

If a component invokes another component with an environment containing 
additional keys, these keys must be namespaced using the Clojure 
:name.space/key-name convention. The ring.* namespaces are reserved.


== Ring Responses
A Ring response is a Clojure map containing at least the following keys and corresponding values:

:status
  (Required, Integer)
  The HTTP status code, must be greater than or equal to 100.

:headers
  (Required, IPersistentMap)
  A Clojure map of HTTP header names to header values. These values may be
  either Strings, in which case one name/value header will be sent in the
  HTTP response, or a seq of Strings, in which case a name/value header will be 
  sent for each such String value.

:body
  (Optional, {String, ISeq, File, InputStream})
  A representation of the response body, if a response body is appropriate for 
  the response's status code. The respond body is handled according to its type:
  String:
    Contents are sent to the client as-is.
  ISeq:
    Each element of the seq is sent to the client as a string.
  File:
    Contents at the specified location are sent to the client. The server may 
    use an optimized method to send the file if such a method is available.
  InputStream:
    Contents are consumed from the stream and sent to the client. When the
    stream is exhausted, it is .close'd.

As with environments, keys other than those listed above should be appropriately
namespaced.
